+++
title = 'STRATIFYHF – Decision Support System Based on Artificial Intelligence'
date = 2026-02-08
draft = false
cover_image = "projects/stratifyhf/Thumbnail.png"
summary = "The STRATIFYHF project will transform the way heart failure is diagnosed today, thereby improving patients' quality and length of life and leading to efficient and sustainable healthcare systems by reducing hospital admissions related to heart failure and unnecessary referrals from primary to secondary care across Europe and beyond."
category = "CATEGORY"
+++

# STRATIFYHF – Decision Support System Based on Artificial Intelligence

Heart failure is a pandemic that currently affects up to 15 million people in Europe. It is a complex clinical syndrome characterized by impaired cardiac function and is associated with poor quality of life and high healthcare costs. There is a high clinical demand for new artificial intelligence (AI) tools that will facilitate risk stratification, early diagnosis and assessment of disease progression. Such tools are essential to enable the immediate initiation of prevention and treatment strategies that will improve patients’ quality of life, reduce morbidity and mortality and the burden on healthcare due to heart failure. STRATIFYHF aims to develop, validate and implement the first AI-based decision support system for risk stratification, early diagnosis and assessment of disease progression in heart failure. The system will integrate patient demographic and clinical data using existing and emerging technologies and build tools using machine learning. In addition, a mobile application will be developed to enable patients to better monitor their condition and enable healthcare professionals to make informed decisions when choosing strategies for the prevention and treatment of heart failure. Our multidisciplinary consortium, including three SMEs, will deliver the DSS as a Class 2b medical device, under the guidance of medical regulatory and health technology experts, reaching TRL 8 by the end of the year. The STARTIFYHF project will change the way heart failure is diagnosed today, thereby improving the quality and length of life of patients and leading to efficient and sustainable healthcare systems by reducing the number of heart failure-related hospital admissions and unnecessary referrals from primary to secondary care in Europe and beyond.